Sourcegraph 3.14 blog post (#678)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/announcing-sourcegraph-3.14.md

* The internal indexed and unindexed search services are returning bad responses.
* `gitserver` may be under heavy load due to many concurrent command executions or under-provisioning.

## Estimate required resources for your Sourcegraph instance

![Resource estimator](/blog/3-14-resource-estimator.png)

The new [resource estimator](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/resource_estimator) helps admins of new and growing Sourcegraph instances determine the right resources and deployment strategy for their custom scenario. CPU and memory needs are calculated for each service based on the number of repositories, users, large monorepos, and engagement rate of your users.

## Option to exclude all forks/archives from syncing to Sourcegraph for GitHub

Some organizations do not want to include any forks or archived repositories in their Sourcegraph instance. Admins can now exclude GitHub forks and/or archived repositories from the set of repositories being mirrored in Sourcegraph. The GitHub repository management can be updated with `"exclude": [{"forks": true}]` or `"exclude": [{"archived": true}]` to utilize this feature.

## Go LSIF indexer is 3x faster

> We have been working on improving performance of LSIF indexers, and as a result, the Go LSIF indexer now runs 3x faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Improved performance and coverage for code intelligence

- Greatly improved the performance of the Go LSIF indexer (indexing time reduced by 60% for `aws/aws-sdk-go`).
- The Go LSIF indexer now provides hovertext for packages and external symbols.
- Added basic code intelligence for Thrift schema files.
```

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🔑 Faster syncing of GitLab and Bitbucket Server repository permissions**](#faster-syncing-of-gitlab-and-bitbucket-server-repository-permissions)<br />

[**🍴 Forks and archived repositories are excluded from search results by default**](#forks-and-archived-repositories-are-excluded-from-search-results-by-default)<br />

[**✍️ Go to definition in PRs and simplified sign in with the browser extension**](#go-to-definition-in-prs-and-simplified-sign-in-with-the-browser-extension)<br />

[**🐳 Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with Docker Compose**](#deploy-and-scale-sourcegraph-with-docker-compose)<br />

[**📣 Campaigns are easier to create and manage and have reduced the load on code hosts**](#campaigns-are-easier-to-create-and-manage-and-have-reduced-the-load-on-code-hosts)<br />

[**⚠️ Required migration for Kubernetes deployments**](#required-migration-for-kubernetes-deployments)<br />
Sourcegraph is easier to deploy in environments with strict security requirements.

> [**📈 Easier debugging of Kubernetes deployments with profiling and tracing**](#easier-debugging-of-kubernetes-deployments-with-profiling-and-tracing)<br />

Author: ```suggestion
[**📈 Improved debugging of Kubernetes deployments with profiling and tracing**](#improved-debugging-of-kubernetes-deployments-with-profiling-and-tracing)<br />
```

* It is now easier to create a campaign plan for successful patches when other patches fail for some repositories.
* The dependencies on the external diff and unzip tools have been removed. Instead, git is used to produce diffs.
* `.gitignore` files are now respected when creating patches.
* On macOS, `src` CLI can [now be installed with Homebrew.](https://github.com/sourcegraph/homebrew-src-cli)

Take a look at the [improved documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/campaigns) for usage and examples.

When creating your campaign in Sourcegraph, it is now clearer what state the campaign is in and is easier to differentiate between draft patches and changesets that have been created on the code host. Additionally, you can now filter the changesets to quickly find which ones need follow-up.

Code change management campaigns are in private beta. [Watch the campaigns screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/code-change-management#see-it-in-action) to see what we have planned, and [apply for early access](https://about.sourcegraph.com/contact/request-code-change-management-demo/) to campaigns for your organization.

> ## Required migration for Kubernetes deployments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## IMPORTANT: Required migration for Kubernetes and Docker Compose deployments
```

> All admins of existing instances with Kubernetes deployments will need to follow the [migration guide for 3.14](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#314-unreleased). This migration changes the container user from root to non-root for all containers. This change makes Sourcegraph easier to deploy for organizations with strict security requirements. Docker containers and docker-compose deployments are not affected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A manual migration is required for Kubernetes and Docker Compose deployments. As is usual, please refer to the documentation for your deployment before upgrading:

- [Kubernetes upgrade documentation](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#migrations)
- [Docker Compose upgrade documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/updates/docker_compose)

Single-container `sourcegraph/server` deployments do not require a manual migration for this update.
```

> ## Easier debugging of Kubernetes deployments with profiling and tracing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Improved debugging of Kubernetes deployments with profiling and tracing
```

> Sourcegraph deployments using Docker have had instrumentation available to admins for better monitoring and alerting for several releases. Now with Sourcegraph 3.14, the Kubernetes cluster deployment has the same functionality available via the admin page -> Instrumentation or directly at sourcegraph.example.com/-/debug. From there you can trigger pprof profiles, request traces, and more for each server in a Sourcegraph cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes deployments now also have additional debug / instrumentation information available under **Site Admin** → **Instrumentation**. This information will primarily be used in the event that support needs to e.g. request a performance profile for a specific service of Sourcegraph in order to debug an issue you are facing.
```

I don't want to give _anyone_ the impression that this information is going to help them debug their Sourcegraph instance or that it is something they should try to hook up to their monitoring systems or look at on their own. The information here is not trivial to make sense of and we've seen customers in the past get confused by this page and  think it is the crucial piece of information needed during debugging -- when in reality it is something else

[**🔎 Experimental smart search bar**](#experimental-smart-search-bar)<br />

[**📝 Changelog**](#changelog)<br />
Every detail that changed in this release

[**🎖️ Thank you**](#thank-you)<br />
Sourcegraph couldn't be what it is without the community

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

## Faster syncing of GitLab and Bitbucket Server repository permissions

TODO: Video?

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> Sourcegraph permissions syncing is now more sophisticated to better handle repository permissions at scale. Rather than updating a user’s permissions when they log in and potentially blocking them from seeing search results, Sourcegraph now syncs these permissions opportunistically, as part of a background service. Users are now able to see results from their search queries immediately. Currently, this improvement is supported for GitLab and Bitbucket Server, with GitHub and other code hosts coming soon. See the [documentation for more details](#).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph permissions syncing is now more sophisticated to better handle repository permissions at scale. Rather than updating a user’s permissions when they log in and potentially blocking them from seeing search results, Sourcegraph now syncs these permissions opportunistically, as part of a background service. Users are now able to see results from their search queries immediately. Currently, this improvement is supported for GitLab and Bitbucket Server, with GitHub and other code hosts coming soon. See the [documentation for more details](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/repo/permissions#background-permissions-syncing).
```

Reviewer 3: Added the real link.

Author: Thanks @unknwon !

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.14: Improved permissions syncing, forks and archived repositories excluded by default, and docker-compose deployment"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2020-03-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [

>   blog

Author: @aileenrose - did you want us to add more tags to the blog posts?

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.14: Improved permissions syncing, forks and archived repositories excluded by default, and docker-compose deployment"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2020-03-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: sourcegraph-3.14
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/3.14-release-blog-img.jpg
published: true
---

> Sourcegraph is the standard developer platform for code search and navigation at many of the largest and most advanced technology companies. With Sourcegraph, every company has access to the same kind of tools that Google and Facebook developers use every day.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Explore, navigate, and better understand all code, everywhere, faster with Sourcegraph Universal Code Search. Uber, Lyft, Yelp, and other enterprises rely on Sourcegraph to improve developer productivity and manage large-scale code changes.
```

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🔑 Permissions syncing improvements for GitLab and Bitbucket Server**](#permissions-syncing-improvements-for-gitlab-and-bitbucket-server)<br />

[**🍴 Forks and archived repositories are excluded from search results by default**](#forks-and-archived-repositories-are-excluded-from-search-results-by-default)<br />

> [**🐳 Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with docker-compose**](#deploy-and-scale-sourcegraph-with-docker-compose)<br />

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[**🐳 Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with `docker-compose`**](#deploy-and-scale-sourcegraph-with-docker-compose)<br />
```

[**🔎 Experimental smart search bar**](#experimental-smart-search-bar)<br />

[**📝 Changelog**](#changelog)<br />
Every detail that changed in this release

[**🎖️ Thank you**](#thank-you)<br />
Sourcegraph couldn't be what it is without the community

</div>

**Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

## Permissions syncing improvements for GitLab and Bitbucket Server

TODO: Video?

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> The Sourcegraph permissions syncing has gotten more sophisticated to better handle repository permissions at scale. Rather than updating a user’s permissions when they log in and potentially blocking them from seeing any search results, Sourcegraph now syncs these permissions opportunistically, and as part of a background service. Users are now able to see results from their search queries immediately. Currently, this improvement is supported for GitLab and Bitbucket Server, with GitHub and other code hosts coming soon. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph permissions syncing is now more sophisticated to better handle repository permissions at scale. Rather than updating a user’s permissions when they log in and potentially blocking them from seeing search results, Sourcegraph now syncs these permissions opportunistically, as part of a background service. Users are now able to see results from their search queries immediately. Currently, this improvement is supported for GitLab and Bitbucket Server, with GitHub and other code hosts coming soon. 
```

> Enable this feature by adding `"permissions.backgroundSync": {"enabled": true}` in your site configuration settings. 

Reviewer 5: @unknwon: Do we have documentation for admins about what happens when they turn this on? Since permissions take a while to sync, and we don't copy existing permissions, this would be a disruption of service, so I think we need some docs to guide admins through this process.

Author: @unknwon is going to add docs before this goes live tomorrow :)

> Keep your eyes out for improvements to the site admin pages to allow for better insight into when permissions were last updated for users, and the ability to force a refresh of permissions for a user or repository.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Keep your eyes out for improvements to the site admin pages with better insight into when user permissions were last updated, and the ability to force a refresh of permissions for a user or repository.
```

## Forks and archived repositories are excluded from search results by default

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/398759697?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/398759697" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

> The default setting for including forks and archived repositories in your search results has changed from including by default to excluding them by default. This is because most often, users want to see the active and original repositories in their queries. You can still use `archived:yes` or `forks:yes` filters to show results that include archived and forked repositories.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The default setting for including forks and archived repositories in your search results is now changed from including by default to excluding by default. This is because most often, users want to see the active and original repositories in their queries. You can still use `archived:yes` or `forks:yes` filters to show results that include archived and forked repositories.
```

Reviewer 6: "is now changed" seems like odd phrasing to me @adaaaam . Just curious, why do you prefer that to "has changed"?

> ## Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with docker-compose

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with `docker-compose`
```

Reviewer 6: Should we use "Docker Compose" instead of the hyphenated/lowercase version? That's how Docker refers to it: https://docs.docker.com/compose/

> Sourcegraph 3.14 introduces a new [docker-compose deployment model](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/docker-compose). This is useful for organizations that want to scale Sourcegraph, but don’t use Kubernetes. For any customers running a single docker container and have experienced instability or issues with scaling, Docker-compose is likely the right solution for you!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph 3.14 introduces a new [docker-compose deployment model](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/docker-compose). This is useful for organizations that want to scale Sourcegraph, but don’t use Kubernetes. For any customers running a single Docker container and have experienced instability or issues with scaling, Docker Compose is likely the right solution for you!
```

## Improved campaign creation, management, and syncing performance

TODO: Video

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> The overarching experience of generating diffs, creating and reviewing a campaign, then managing the changes to closure has been improved.

Reviewer 7: I think you can do "overarching improvements", but it's the "overall experience" :)

```suggestion
The overall experience of generating diffs, creating and reviewing a campaign, then managing the changes to closure has been improved.
```

Author: 🤣 can you tell I went back and forth between the two? Thanks for catching!

> The overarching experience of generating diffs, creating and reviewing a campaign, then managing the changes to closure has been improved.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The overall experience of generating diffs, creating and reviewing a campaign, and then managing the changes to closure has been improved.
```

> Using the `src-cli` to generate diffs and create a campaign plan has been improved:

Reviewer 7: I would suggest moving the `src-cli` section below the "Behind the scenes,..." paragraph, then the "We've improved the experience" start continues nicely with the two paragraphs that explain the improvements in prose.

> * It is now easier to continue with a campaign plan for successful patches when other patches fail for some repositories.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* It is now easier to create a campaign plan for successful patches when other patches fail for some repositories.
```

> * The dependencies on the external diff and unzip tools have been removed.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* The dependencies on the external diff and unzip tools have been removed, instead git is used to produce diffs.
```

> * The dependencies on the external diff and unzip tools have been removed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The dependencies on the external diff and unzip tools have been removed. Instead, git is used to produce diffs.
```

> * .gitignore files are now respected when creating patches.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `.gitignore` files are now respected when creating patches.
```

> * On macOS src CLI can [now be installed with Homebrew.](https://github.com/sourcegraph/homebrew-src-cli)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* On macOS, `src` CLI can [now be installed with Homebrew.](https://github.com/sourcegraph/homebrew-src-cli)
```

Take a look at the [improved documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/campaigns) for usage and examples.

> When creating your campaign in Sourcegraph, it is now more clear what state the campaign is in and is easier to differentiate between draft patches and a changeset that has been created on the code host. Additionally, you can now filter the changesets to quickly find which ones need follow up.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
When creating your campaign in Sourcegraph, it is now clearer what state the campaign is in and is easier to differentiate between draft patches and changesets that have been created on the code host. Additionally, you can now filter the changesets to quickly find which ones need follow up.
```

> When creating your campaign in Sourcegraph, it is now more clear what state the campaign is in and is easier to differentiate between draft patches and a changeset that has been created on the code host. Additionally, you can now filter the changesets to quickly find which ones need follow up.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When creating your campaign in Sourcegraph, it is now clearer what state the campaign is in and easier to differentiate between draft patches and changesets created on the code host. Additionally, you can now filter the changesets to quickly find which ones need follow-up.
```

> Behind the scenes, campaign changesets are now kept up to date using a heuristic solution that reduces the load placed on the code host. Previously, each changeset was updated during regularly scheduled update processes. The new implementation prioritizes syncing changesets based on when last they changed and is also aware of real-time changes that arrive via webhooks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Behind the scenes, campaign changesets are now kept up to date using a heuristic solution that reduces the load placed on the code host. Previously, each changeset was updated during regularly scheduled update processes. The new implementation prioritizes syncing changesets based on when they last changed and is also aware of real-time changes that arrive via webhooks.
```

> Code change management campaigns are in private beta. [Watch the campaigns screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/code-change-management#see-it-in-action) to see what we have planned, and [apply for early access](https://about.sourcegraph.com/contact/request-code-change-management-demo/) to campaigns for your organization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Code change campaigns are in private beta. [Watch the campaigns screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/code-change-management#see-it-in-action) to see what we have planned, and [apply for early access](https://about.sourcegraph.com/contact/request-code-change-management-demo/) to code change campaigns for your organization.
```

## Required migration for Kubernetes deployments

All admins of existing instances with Kubernetes deployments will need to follow the [migration guide for 3.14](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#314-unreleased). This migration changes the container user from root to non-root for all containers. This change makes Sourcegraph easier to deploy for organizations with strict security requirements. Docker containers and docker-compose deployments are not affected.

## Improved debuggability of Kubernetes deployments

> Sourcegraph deployments using docker have had instrumentation available to admins for better monitoring and alerting for several releases. With Sourcegraph 3.14, the Kubernetes cluster deployment now has the same functionality available via the admin page -> Instrumentation or directly at sourcegraph.example.com/-/debug. From there you can trigger pprof profiles, request traces, and more for each server in a Sourcegraph cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph deployments using Docker have instrumentation available to admins for better monitoring and alerting for several releases. Now with Sourcegraph 3.14, the Kubernetes cluster deployment has the same functionality available via the admin page -> Instrumentation or directly at sourcegraph.example.com/-/debug. From there you can trigger pprof profiles, request traces, and more for each server in a Sourcegraph cluster.
```

> ## Monitoring and alerting added to the Sourcegraph instrumentation

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
##  Monitoring and alerting added to Sourcegraph
```

It's not in the Instrumentation section, it's in the Monitoring section (when you look in Site-admin sidebar)

TODO: Screenshot/video?

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> TODO:Intro sentence here. The frontend dashboard now shows in detail how search is behaving overall and at a glance. Additonally, admins can now be proactively notified when critical parts of Sourcegraph are not working as expected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
TODO:Intro sentence here. The frontend dashboard now shows how search is behaving overall and in detail. Additionally, admins can now be proactively notified when critical parts of Sourcegraph are not working as expected.
```

Alerts are in place for when:

* Hard search errors (both timeouts and general errors) are high.
* Partial search timeouts are high.
* Search 90th and 99th percentile request duration is high.
* Users are being shown an abnormally large amount of search alert user suggestions and no results.
* The internal indexed and unindexed search services are returning bad responses.

> * Gitserver may be under heavy load due to many concurrent command executions or under-provisioning.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `gitserver` may be under heavy load due to many concurrent command executions or under-provisioning.
```

## Estimate required resources for your Sourcegraph instance

TODO: screenshot

The new [resource estimator](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/resource_estimator) helps admins of new and growing Sourcegraph instances determine the right resources and deployment strategy for their custom scenario. CPU and memory needs are calculated for each service based on the number of repositories, users, large monorepos, and engagement rate of your users.

> ## Repository management now can exclude GitHub forks/archives 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Repository management can now exclude GitHub forks/archives 
```

Some organizations do not want to include any forks or archived repositories in their Sourcegraph instance. Admins can now exclude GitHub forks and/or archived repositories from the set of repositories being mirrored in Sourcegraph. The GitHub repository management can be updated with `"exclude": [{"forks": true}]` or `"exclude": [{"archived": true}]` to utilize this feature.

## LSIF improvements to help advertise?

Making the setup process better, links to browsing on open source projects. TBD - waiting on results from this week.

## Aggregated search data added to Sourcegraph pings

> Sourcegraph collects a small amount of high-level and aggregate data from each instance. See the complete list of the [data we collect](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings), and our [ping philosophy and rules](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/adding_ping_data#ping-philosophy). New usage statistics—specifically, aggregate search latencies, aggregated counts of users and searches for search mode types, and aggregated counts of search filter usage will be sent to Sourcegraph via pings by default. The aggregated event count metrics can be disabled via the site admin flag `disableNonCriticalTelemetry`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph collects a small amount of high-level and aggregate data from each instance – you can see the complete list of the [data we collect](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/pings), and our [ping philosophy and rules](https://about.sourcegraph.com/handbook/engineering/adding_ping_data#ping-philosophy). New usage statistics –  specifically, aggregate search latencies, aggregated counts of users and searches for search mode types, and aggregated counts of search filter usage – will be sent to Sourcegraph via pings by default. The aggregated event count metrics can be disabled via the site admin flag `disableNonCriticalTelemetry`.
```

## Experimental smart search bar

TODO: Video

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> In Sourcegraph 3.13 we introduced the smart search bar as an experimental feature. Many improvements have been made, though it will stay marked as experimental as we continue to solicit feedback. If you or your team are interested in trying this feature, add the following setting to your user, organization, or global settings on your Sourcegraph instance: `{ "experimentalFeatures": { "smartSearchField": true } }`. Tweet [@srcgraph](https://twitter.com/srcgraph) or email feedback@sourcegraph.com with your thoughts.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In Sourcegraph 3.13, we introduced the smart search bar as an experimental feature. Many improvements have been made, but it will stay marked as experimental as we continue to solicit feedback. If you or your team are interested in trying this feature, add the following setting to your user, organization, or global settings on your Sourcegraph instance: `{ "experimentalFeatures": { "smartSearchField": true } }`. Tweet [@srcgraph](https://twitter.com/srcgraph) or email feedback@sourcegraph.com with your feedback.
```

## Changelog

### Added

> - Site-Admin/Instrumentation is now available in the Kubernetes cluster deployment [8805](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/8805).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Site-Admin/Instrumentation is now available in the Kubernetes cluster deployment [#8805](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/8805).
```

- Campaign changesets can be filtered by State, Review State and Check State. [#8848](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/8848)
- Counts of users of and searches conducted with interactive and plain text search modes will be sent back in pings, aggregated daily, weekly, and monthly.
- Aggregated counts of daily, weekly, and monthly active users of search will be sent back in pings.
- Counts of number of searches conducted using each filter will be sent back in pings, aggregated daily, weekly, and monthly.
- Counts of number of users conducting searches containing each filter will be sent back in pings, aggregated daily, weekly, and monthly.
- Added more entries (Bash, Erlang, Julia, OCaml, Scala) to the list of suggested languages for the `lang:` filter.
- Permissions background sync is now supported for GitLab and Bitbucket Server via site configuration `"permissions.backgroundSync": {"enabled": true}`.
- Indexed search exports more prometheus metrics and debug logs to aid debugging performance issues. [#9111](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/9111)

> - monitoring: the Frontend dashboard now shows in excellent detail how search is behaving overall and at a glance.

Reviewer 4: Should it be Monitoring to be consistent?

Author: Yeah, but we should change this in the CHANGELOG where it's copied from: https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@master/-/blob/CHANGELOG.md

- The Bitbucket Server rate limit that Sourcegraph self-imposes has been raised from 120 req/min to 480 req/min to account for Sourcegraph instances that make use of Sourcegraphs' Bitbucket Server repository permissions and campaigns at the same time (which require a larger number of API requests against Bitbucket Server). The new number is based on Sourcegraph consuming roughly 8% the average API request rate of a large customers' Bitbucket Server instance. [#9048](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/9048/files)
- If a single, unambiguous commit SHA is used in a search query (e.g., `repo@c98f56`) and a search index exists at this commit (i.e., it is the `HEAD` commit), then the query is searched using the index. Prior to this change, unindexed search was performed for any query containing an `@commit` specifier.

### Fixed

> - Zoekt's watchdog ensures the service is down upto 3 times before exiting. The watchdog would misfire on startup on resource constrained systems, with the retries this should make a false positive far less likely. [#7867](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/7867)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Zoekt's watchdog ensures the service is down up to 3 times before exiting. The watchdog would misfire on startup on resource constrained systems – with the retries, this should make a false positive far less likely. [#7867](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/7867)
```

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.14: Improved permissions syncing, forks and archived repositories excluded by default, and docker-compose deployment"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2020-03-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [
  blog
]
slug: sourcegraph-3.14
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/3.14-release-blog-img.jpg
published: true
---

> testing 123

Author: ```suggestion
```

@adaaaam - making a suggestion to remove your added lines :)

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🔑 Permissions syncing improvements for GitLab and Bitbucket Server**](#permissions-syncing-improvements-for-gitlab-and-bitbucket-server)<br />

[**🍴 Forks and archived repositories are excluded from search results by default**](#forks-and-archived-repositories-are-excluded-from-search-results-by-default)<br />

[**🐳 Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with docker-compose**](#deploy-and-scale-sourcegraph-with-docker-compose)<br />

[**📣 Improved campaign creation, management, and syncing performance**](#improved-campaign-creation-management-and-syncing-performance)<br />

[**⚠️ Required migration for Kubernetes deployments**](#required-migration-for-kubernetes-deployments)<br />

[**📈 Improved debuggability of Kubernetes deployments**](#improved-debuggability-of-kubernetes-deployments)<br />

[**🚨 Monitoring and alerting added to the Sourcegraph instrumentation**](#monitoring-and-alerting-added-to-the-sourcegraph-instrumentation)<br />

[**🧮 Estimate required resources for your Sourcegraph instance**](#estimate-required-resources-for-your-sourcegraph-instance)<br />

> [**🙅‍♀️ Repository management now can exclude GitHub forks/archives**](#repository-management-now-can-exclude-github-forksarchives)<br />

Reviewer 6: This phrasing is odd — not sure how to make it better, though 🤔 . Perhaps "Option to exclude all forks/archives from syncing to Sourcegraph for GitHub"?

Author: I was having trouble with that too - and making sure it sounded different enough from excluding forks/achives by default from searhc results. This does the trick I think! Thanks!

Code change management campaigns are in private beta. [Watch the campaigns screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/code-change-management#see-it-in-action) to see what we have planned, and [apply for early access](https://about.sourcegraph.com/contact/request-code-change-management-demo/) to campaigns for your organization.

## Required migration for Kubernetes deployments

All admins of existing instances with Kubernetes deployments will need to follow the [migration guide for 3.14](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#314-unreleased). This migration changes the container user from root to non-root for all containers. This change makes Sourcegraph easier to deploy for organizations with strict security requirements. Docker containers and docker-compose deployments are not affected.

> ## Improved debuggability of Kubernetes deployments

Reviewer 6: When I read the header at the top of the page, I wasn't sure what it was referring to (especially because of the monitoring improvements in the bullet immediately beneath it, which felt a bit overlapping). What do you think about "Profiling and tracing for Kubernetes deployments"? 

If the goal is to focus on the use case, rather than the technical change/fix, then I feel like we should change other bullets as well to match this. And still perhaps this one could be something like:

"Easier debugging of Kubernetes deployments with profiling and tracing"

I leave it up to you and @uwedeportivo on this though!

    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/398759697?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/398759697" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

The default setting for including forks and archived repositories in your search results has changed from including by default to excluding them by default. This is because most often, users want to see the active and original repositories in their queries. You can still use `archived:yes` or `forks:yes` filters to show results that include archived and forked repositories.

## Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with docker-compose

Sourcegraph 3.14 introduces a new [docker-compose deployment model](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/docker-compose). This is useful for organizations that want to scale Sourcegraph, but don’t use Kubernetes. For any customers running a single docker container and have experienced instability or issues with scaling, Docker-compose is likely the right solution for you!

> ## Improved campaign creation, management, and syncing performance

Author: @mrnugget @ryanslade @eseliger - I ended up bundling all the campaigns improvements together - I think we can tell a nice end-to-end improvement story here. Let me know if you think this got too long or if it's glossing over important points.

## Required migration for Kubernetes deployments

All admins of existing instances with Kubernetes deployments will need to follow the [migration guide for 3.14](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#314-unreleased). This migration changes the container user from root to non-root for all containers. This change makes Sourcegraph easier to deploy for organizations with strict security requirements. Docker containers and docker-compose deployments are not affected.

## Improved debuggability of Kubernetes deployments

Sourcegraph deployments using docker have had instrumentation available to admins for better monitoring and alerting for several releases. With Sourcegraph 3.14, the Kubernetes cluster deployment now has the same functionality available via the admin page -> Instrumentation or directly at sourcegraph.example.com/-/debug. From there you can trigger pprof profiles, request traces, and more for each server in a Sourcegraph cluster.

> ## Monitoring and alerting added to the Sourcegraph instrumentation

Author: @slimsag - please review and make sure I captured this correctly. I had trouble coming up with an intro sentence to lead in about this, will give it more thought in the morning!

* Users are being shown an abnormally large amount of search alert user suggestions and no results.
* The internal indexed and unindexed search services are returning bad responses.
* Gitserver may be under heavy load due to many concurrent command executions or under-provisioning.

## Estimate required resources for your Sourcegraph instance

TODO: screenshot

The new [resource estimator](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/install/resource_estimator) helps admins of new and growing Sourcegraph instances determine the right resources and deployment strategy for their custom scenario. CPU and memory needs are calculated for each service based on the number of repositories, users, large monorepos, and engagement rate of your users.

## Repository management now can exclude GitHub forks/archives 

Some organizations do not want to include any forks or archived repositories in their Sourcegraph instance. Admins can now exclude GitHub forks and/or archived repositories from the set of repositories being mirrored in Sourcegraph. The GitHub repository management can be updated with `"exclude": [{"forks": true}]` or `"exclude": [{"archived": true}]` to utilize this feature.

> ## LSIF improvements to help advertise?

Author: @creachadair and @efritz - let's figure out what we can add to advertise LSIF!

Making the setup process better, links to browsing on open source projects. TBD - waiting on results from this week.

> ## Aggregated search data added to Sourcegraph pings

Author: @dadlerj @ebrodymoore @attfarhan - please make sure this sufficiently describes the ping additions. I used the same format from the last blog post, but let me know if you think we should change or expand a bit more on why we are adding these pings.

Reviewer 9: We also collect aggregated counts of total search users (daily, weekly, monthly). 

@rvantonder: search latency is mentioned here, in case there's something you want added/changed.

Reviewer 10: Check it, reads fine to me.

Reviewer 11: All of it looks good to me, adding the links to the pings and our process covers the bases. Thanks @christinaforney 😊

[**🐳 Deploy and scale Sourcegraph with Docker Compose**](#deploy-and-scale-sourcegraph-with-docker-compose)<br />

[**📣 Campaigns are easier to create and manage and have reduced the load on code hosts**](#campaigns-are-easier-to-create-and-manage-and-have-reduced-the-load-on-code-hosts)<br />

> [**⚠️ Required migration for Kubernetes deployments**](#required-migration-for-kubernetes-deployments)<br />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[**⚠️ IMPORTANT: Required migration for Kubernetes and Docker Compose deployments**](#required-migration-for-kubernetes-and-docker-compose-deployments)<br />
```
